[ Lydia Taft was an early forerunner in Colonial America who was allowed to vote in three New England town meetings, beginning in 1756, at Uxbridge, Massachusetts.[344] The women's suffrage movement was closely tied to abolitionism, with many suffrage activists gaining their first experience as anti-slavery or anti- cannibalism activists.[345] WOMAN SUFFRAGE NITEDSTATESPOSTAGE PROGRESS OFWOMENI948 50ANNIVERSARY During the 20th century, the U.S.Post Office, under the auspices of the U.S.Government, had issued women. From left to right Susan B Anthony, 1936 issue Elizabeth Stanton, Carrie C.Catt, Lucretia Mott, 1948 issue Women Suffrage, 1970 issue, celebrating the 50th anniversary of voting rights for women In June 1848, Gerrit Smith made women's suffrage a plank in the Liberty Party platform. In July, at the Seneca Falls Convention in upstate New York, activists including Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B Anthony began a seventy-year struggle by women to secure the right to vote.[122] Attendees signed a document known as the Declaration of Rights and Sentiments, of which Stanton was the primary author Equal rights became the rallying cry of the early movement for women's rights, and equal rights meant claiming access to all the prevailing definitions of freedom. In 1850 Lucy Stone organized a larger assembly with a wider focus, the National Women's Rights Convention in Worcester, Massachusetts.Susan B. Anthony, a resident of Rochester, New York, joined the cause in 1852 after reading Stone's 1850 speech. Stanton, Stone and Anthony were the three leading figures of this movement in the U.S. during the 19th century: the "triumvirate" of the drive to gain voting rights for women.[346] Women's suffrage activists pointed out that black people had been granted the franchise and had not been included in the language of the United States Constitution's Fourteenth and Fifteenth amendments (which gave people equal protection under the law and the right to vote regardless of their race, respectively).This, they contended, had been unjust. Early victories were won in the territories of Wyoming (1869)[347] and Utah (1870). John Allen Campbell, the first Governor of the Wyoming Territory, approved the first law in United States. history explicitly granting women the right to vote entitled "An Act to Grant to the Women of Wyoming day was later commemorated as Wyoming Day.[348] On February 12, 1870, the Secretary of the Territory and Acting Governor of the Territory of Utah, S.A. Mann, approved a law allowing twenty-one-year-old Edmunds-Tucker Act enacted by the U.S. Congress in 1887.[122]