[ WIKIPEDIA Donate Create account Log in The Free Encyclopedia The Wolverine (film) 47 languages Article Talk Read Edit View history Tools From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia "Wolverine (film)" redirects here.For the 2009 film, see X-Men Origins: Wolverine.For other uses, see Wolverine (disambiguation). The Wolverine is a 2013 superhero film featuring the Marvel The Wolverine Comics character Wolverine. It is the sixth installment in the X Men film series, the second installment in the trilogy of Wolverine films after X-Men Origins:Wolverine (2009), and a spin-off/sequel to X-Men: The Last Stand (2006).Directed by James Mangold from a screenplay written by Scott Frank and Mark Bomback, based on the 1982 limited series Wolverine by Chris Claremont and Frank Miller, it stars Hugh Jackman as Logan /Wolverine, alongside Svetlana Khodchenkova, Rila Fukushima, Tao Okamoto, Hiroyuki Sanada, Will Yun Lee and Famke Janssen.Following the events of X-Men:The Last Stand, Logan travels to Japan, where he engages an old acquaintance in a struggle that has lasting consequences. WOLVERINE Stripped of his healing powers, Wolverine must battle deadly. samurai while struggling with guilt over Jean Grey's death. The film's development began in 2009 after the release of X- Theatrical release poster Men Origins: Wolverine. Christopher McQuarrie was hired to Directed by James Mangold write a screenplay for The Wolverine in August 2009. In Screenplay by Mark Bomback October 2010, Darren Aronofsky was hired to direct the film. Scott Frank Based on The project was delayed following Aronofsky's departure and Wolverine by Chris Claremont the Tohoku earthquake and tsunami in March 2011. In June Frank Miller 2011, Mangold was brought on board to replace Aronofsky.. Produced by Lauren Shuler Donner Bomback was then hired to rewrite the screenplay in Hutch Parker September 2011. The supporting characters were cast in July. Starring Hugh Jackman 2012 with principal photography beginning at the end of the Hiroyuki Sanada month around New South Wales before moving to Tokyo in Famke Janssen August 2012 and back to New South Wales in October 2012 Svetlana Khodchenkova The film was converted to 3D in post-production Cinematography Ross Emery Edited by Michael McCusker Music by Marco Beltrami