[ Cast and characters [edit] Main characters [edit ] Main article: List of characters in the Breaking Bad franchise .Bryan Cranston as Walter White, a high-school chemistry teacher who,shortly after his 50th birthday, is diagnosed with Stage Ill lung cancer and. turns to making meth to secure his family's finances. As his shady business progresses, Walter gains a notorious reputation under the alias of Heisenberg".Cranston stated that, though he Breaking Bad cast and crew (left to right): creator enjoyed doing comedy, he decided he Vince Gilligan, RJ Mitte (Walter White Jr.),Aaron Paul (Jesse Pinkman),Anna Gunn (Skyler White), Bryan Cranston (Walter White), Dean Norris (Hank ... should really focus on doing something Schrader), and producer Mark Johnson else. But I think any good drama worth its weight always has a sprinkling of comedy in it, because you can ease the tension to an audience when it's necessary, and then build it back up again. Walt White has no clue he's occasionally funny, but as an actor, I recognize when there are comedic moments and opportunities.[10] Anna Gunn as Skyler White, Walter's wife who was pregnant with their second child before his diagnosis and who becomes increasingly suspicious of her husband after he begins behaving in unfamiliar ways. Gunn sees Skyler as "grounded, tough, smart and driven". Gunn sees Skyler's stalled writing career as her biggest dream, saying, "I think she really deep down yearns to be an artist and to be creative and productive."[11] . Aaron Paul as Jesse Pinkman, Walter's cooking partner and former student. Paul sees Jesse as a funny. kid. "He's just this lost soul - I don't think he's a bad kid, he just got mixed in the wrong crowd." Paul elaborated on the character's background, saying, "He doesn't come from an abusive, alcoholic. background. But maybe he just didn't relate to his father, maybe his father was too strict and too proper for Jesse." Paul compared the character's relationship with Walt to The Odd Couple.[12]. Dean Norris as Hank Schrader, Walter and Skyler's brother-in-law via his marriage to Skyler's sister, Marie. Hank is a DEA agent.At the beginning of the series, this character was intended to be the comic relief" [13] Betsy Brandt as Marie Schrader, Skyler's sister and Hank's kleptomaniac wife.Brandt described Marie as an unpleasant bitch", but also stated that there was more to her than that. "I think we're seeing more of it now that she would be there for her family. But it's all about her."[14].