[ The West Australian Symphony Orchestra (WAsO) is based at the Perth Concert Hall. Other concert, performance and indoor sporting venues in Western Australia include His Majesty's Theatre, the State Theatre Centre of Western Australia, the Crown Theatre and Perth Arena, which opened in 2012. Performing arts companies based in Perth include the West Australian Ballet, the West Australian Opera, the Black Swan State Theatre Company and the Perth Theatre Company.. Western Australia has served as the setting for a number of works of Australian Art Gallery of Western Australia literature. Prominent authors include Katharine Susannah Prichard, Randolph Stow Tim Winton, Kim Scott, Sally Morgan, Joan London, Mary Durack and Craig Silvey The public Art Gallery of Western Australia is part of the Perth Cultural Centre.Founded in 1895, it houses the State Art Collection, comprising works from local and international artists, dating back to the 1800s.[83] The Perth Cultural Centre is. also home to the Western Australian Museum, State Library of Western Australia, State Records Office, and Perth Institute. (although some public libraries are shared school libraries) Sport[edit] Main article: Sport in Western Australia A number of national or international sporting teams and events are based in the. state, including: Australian rules football: The West Coast Eagles and the Fremantle Dockers compete in the Australian Football League (AFL). They also have women's teams playing in the AFL Women's league. The West Australian Football League (WAFL) is the main local football competition, but other local and amateur football leagues exist across the state. .Baseball: The Perth Heat compete in the Australian Baseball League. Matches between the two Western Basketball: The Perth Wildcats (men) and Perth Lynx women) compete in the Australian teams, the West Coast National Basketball League and Women's National Basketball League,. Eagles and the Fremantle Dockers, respectively. are known as the Western Derby Cricket: Western Australia represent the state in first-class and List A domestic cricket, with the Perth Scorchers competing in the Twenty20 Big Bash League. Field hockey: The Thundersticks (men) and Diamonds (women) compete in the Australian Hockey League. .Netball: The West Coast Fever compete in the ANZ Championship .Rugby league: The West Coast Pirates compete in the S. G. Ball Cup.. Rugby union: The Western Force competes in Super Rugby Pacific. . Soccer: Perth Glory field men's and women's teams in the A-League Men and A-League Women, respectively Tennis: The ITF Hopman Cup, an annual international team indoor hardcourt tennis tournament. Water Polo:The UWA Torpedoes water polo club competes in the National Water Polo League (NwPL) International sporting events hosted in the past in Western Australia include the Tom Hoad Cup (water polo), the Perth International (golf), the 2006 Gravity Games (extreme sports), the 2002 Women's Hockey World Cup, the 1991 FINA World Aquatics Championships, the World Rally Championships and the 1962 British Empire and Commonwealth Games. Western Australia's largest sports stadium is Perth Stadium, also known by naming rights sponsorship as Optus Stadium. It has a capacity of over 60,o00 people and is primarily used for Australian rules football and cricket.