[ belief, referencing the year 1776, in the opening sentence of his 1863 -Abraham Lincoln, 1858[166]: 100 Gettysburg Address: "Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty,. and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal." Lincoln's view of the Declaration became influential, seeing it as a moral guide to interpreting the Constitution."For most people now," wrote Garry Wills in 1992, "the Declaration means what Lincoln told us such as Harry V.Jaffa praised this development. Critics of Lincoln, notably Willmoore Kendall and Mel Bradford, argued that Lincoln dangerously expanded the scope of the national government and violated states' rights by reading the Declaration into the Constitution.[166]:39,145-146[167][168][169][170] Women's suffrage and the Declaration In July 1848, the Seneca Falls Convention was held in Seneca Falls, New York, the first women's rights convention. It was organized by Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucretia Mott, Mary Ann McClintock, and Jane Hunt. They patterned their "Declaration of Sentiments"on the Declaration of Independence, in which they demanded social and political equality for women. Their motto was that "All men and women are created equal", and they demanded the right to vote.[171][172] Excerpt from "Declaration of Sentiments": We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men and women are created equal The Declaration of Rights and Sentiments 1848 Elizabeth Cady Stanton and her two sons in 1848 Civil Rights Movement and the Declaration In 1963, at the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom in Washington, D.C., Martin Luther King Jr delivered his famous "I Have a Dream" speech. This speech was meant to inspire the nation, to take up the causes of the Civil Rights Movement. King uses quotations from the Declaration of Independence to encourage equal treatment of all persons regardless of race. Excerpt from King's speech: I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: "We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal." Martin Luther King, Jr., 1963 In 1966, Black Panther Party founders Huey P. Newton and Bobby Seale quoted the Declaration's preamble in its entirety in the party's Ten-Point Program--for the tenth point, "We want land, bread, housing,