[ Zamboanguenos from the tenuous grip of the retreating Spanish military, along with his victorious troops exercised de facto sovereignty over administrative functions and military control within their new country territory and was not subordinate or subject to any other government or authority in the Philippines Alvarez proclaimed his new Republic of Zamboanga had rule over the entire islands of Mindanao, Basilan, and Sulu - effectively the entire southern Philippines.His claim was grandiose.In reality, the republic's sovereignty extended only over the existing premises of ancient Zamboanga, which can be estimated to be about the same size as present-day Zamboanga City is Presidents of the Republic [edit ] Mayor Took office Left office Vicente Alvarez May 18, 1899 November 16, 1899 Isidro Midel November 16, 1899 March 1901 Mariano Arquiza March 1901 March 1903[1] Under Moro Province [edit ]. Main article: Moro Province In March 1903, Arquiza's government ended and was replaced by a new U.S. governor, also effectively ending the Republic of Zamboanga. Zamboanga is made capital of consolidated Mindanao, Basilan, and Sulu Archipelago after abolition of the Republic. The Moro Province had 5 districts: Sulu, Zamboanga, Lanao, Cotabato, and Davao City mayors [edit] Main article: Mayor of Zamboanga City On recommendation of Governor John J. Pershing, the Legislative Council of the Moro Province passed on September 15, 1911, Act No. 272, converting the municipality of Zamboanga into a city with a commission form of government. Its municipal board consisted of a mayor and two commissioners. On February 26,1937,the City Charter of Zamboanga became effective and the new city government was inaugurated headed by a mayor appointed by the President of the Philippine Commonwealth. With the passage of Republic Act No.1210 on April 29, 1955, the position of mayor became elective and the post of vice-mayor was created. Note: The first column consecutively numbers the individuals who have served as chief executive (either mayor or municipal president) of Zamboanga City, while the second column consecutively numbers the individuals who have served as city mayor